ans 1
 
Git is a popular version control system(VCS), It was created by Linus Torvalds
in 2005 and has been maintained by Junio Hamano


ans 2

It is a system that records changes to a file or set of files over time, so that
we can recall specific versions later, i.e., for every source code changes in a
file a new version will be created.

ans 3

GitHub, Inc. is a platform and cloud-based service for software development and version control using Git, allowing developers to store and manage their code.

ans 4

Bitbucket
GitHub
GitLab
Perforce
Beanstalk
Amazon AWS CodeCommit

ans 5

There are three type of version control system in github 

1. Centralized Version Control System (CVCS)
2. Distributed Version Control System (DVCS)


ans 6

1. Performance
Git performs very strongly and reliably when compared to other version control systems. New code changes can be easily committed, version branches can be effortlessly compared and merged, and code can also be optimized to perform better. Algorithms used in developing Git take the full advantage of the deep knowledge stored within, with regards to the attributes used to create real source code file trees, how files are modified over time and what kind of file access patterns are used to recall code files as and when needed by developers. Git primarily focuses upon the file content itself rather than file names while determining the storage and file version history. Object formats of Git repository files use several combinations of delta encoding and compression techniques to store metadata objects and directory contents.

2. Security
Git is designed specially to maintain the integrity of source code. File contents as well as the relationship between file and directories, tags, commits, versions etc. are secured cryptographically using an algorithm called SHA1 which protects the code and change history against accidental as well as malicious damage. You can be sure to have an authentic content history for your source code with Git.

3. Flexibility
A key design objective of Git is the kind of flexibility it offers to support several kinds of nonlinear development workflows and its efficiency in handling both small scale and large scale projects as well as protocols. It is uniquely designed to support tagging and branching operations and store each and every activity carried out by the user as an integral part of “change” history. Not all VCSs support this feature.

4. Wide acceptance
Git offers the type of performance, functionality, security, and flexibility that most developers and teams need to develop their projects. When compared to other VCS Git is the most widely accepted system owing to its universally accepted usability and performance standards.

5. Quality open source project
Git is a widely supported open source project with over ten years of operational history. People maintaining the project are very well matured and possess a long-term vision to meet the long-term needs of users by releasing staged upgrades at regular intervals of time to improve functionality as well as usability. Quality of open source software made available on Git is heavily scrutinized a countless number of times and businesses today depend heavily on Git code quality.


ans 7

A Git repository tracks and saves the history of all changes made to the files in a Git project. It saves this data in a directory called . git , also known as the repository folder. Git uses a version control system to track all changes made to the project and save them in the repository.A Git repository tracks and saves the history of all changes made to the files in a Git project. It saves this data in a directory called . git , also known as the repository folder. Git uses a version control system to track all changes made to the project and save them in the repository.


ans 8
To create a new repo, you'll use the git init command. git init is a one-time command you use during the initial setup of a new repo. Executing this command will create a new .git subdirectory in your current working directory. This will also create a new main branch.